--- PAGE 2 ---
Streamline your business through
Quality Management
Bruce Baxter
Consultant
AEA South Pacific

--- PAGE 3 ---
Streamline your business through Quality Management
Quality
and
Streamline

--- PAGE 4 ---
Quality Management
It is not about how the Managers of a business are measured
It is how the business itself manages the quality of its goods and
services.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Quality
What we want to cover in this session is
What is Quality
Origins of Quality systems
Some regulator requirements
How can we stretch what we have to make it work.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Streamlining
What is streamlining
How does it affect our business
Identifing roadblocks to streamlining
How to include processes to remove roadblocks through our quality
system

--- PAGE 7 ---
What is Quality
There are a number of definitions, but they all reflect the same
message.
This is one of the many:-
Quality is the degree to which an object or entity (e.g., process,
product, or service) satisfies a specified set of attributes or
requirements.
Customer Satisfaction
Conformance to requirements

--- PAGE 8 ---
Origins of Quality systems
"Quality is built in, not inspected in."
To fully understand this principle requires a historical perspective,
particularly a look back to around 1942 during World War 2.
War products were being manufactured by factories that normally
produced domestic goods.
All the various manufacturers used different tolerances due to their
machinery capabilities.
The rework of each component caused huge delays in assembly.

--- PAGE 9 ---
But a bigger problem arose, in the manufacture of ammunition.
In 1940’s Quality was “inspected in” one round out of every 1000
was test fired, if it worked then the rest (999) were shipped to the
soldiers.
However, if it failed the whole 999 were sent back to the factory for
rework or scrapping.
In either case, the test bullet might have been the only one in that
1000 that exhibited that characteristics.

--- PAGE 10 ---
Numerous reports were coming back that there was a high failure
rate in the field.
Obviously, there was a need for improvement.
How did they improve?

--- PAGE 11 ---
Ammunition is comprised of several components—including cases,
primers, powder, and projectiles—often sourced from different
suppliers.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Upon arrival at the assembly plant, Each component was subjected
to rigorous checks:
cases were weighed and measured according to documented
standards,
primers were checked for proper fit,
powder was verified for correct composition,
projectiles were inspected for dimension and weight.

--- PAGE 13 ---
Non-compliant parts were returned to suppliers to maintain quality
at every stage.
We have now created a basic form of incoming inspection

--- PAGE 14 ---
A new system emerged: divide the assembly process into sections,
assigning each segment responsibility for its output.
The assembly sequence involved verification at each step—
installing primers, adding powder, and seating the projectile—with
checks performed before advancing to the next stage. Any
discrepancies led to immediate rectification before continuation.
No requirement to test 1 in 1000 any more because quality has
been built in.

--- PAGE 15 ---
This is the start of a CUSTOMER/SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP which is
vitally important to the quality management system.
When moving your completed job to the next stage, you are
effectively a supplier.
And
When you receive something from a previous stage you are the
customer.

--- PAGE 16 ---
This is important to remember because it will help you identify
roadblocks to streamlining.
We are not an assembly line but your business is naturally divided
into sections for example

--- PAGE 17 ---
• Goods received
• Stores
• Despatch
• Workshop/s
• Accounting
• Sales
• Admin
• Etc.

--- PAGE 18 ---
Regulator Quality system requirements
A part 145 workshop has a requirement to have a quality system.
When you look at the regulatory system as a whole you will see
many similarities with an ISO9000 type quality management
system.
While the quality system required by the regulator are designed to
enhance safety, they do very little to assist you or your staff in the
everyday business.
Regulator requirements for quality – your exposition document plus
a couple more items, all focused on the regulations.

--- PAGE 19 ---
I’m not going to spend time on the regulatory quality system
requirements
What is important to say is that many organisations run their whole
business to satisfy the regulator.
This is not a healthy way to achieve growth or profit

--- PAGE 20 ---
Document and data control
The regulatory requirement is only about all documents and data
relating to the maintenance of Aircraft.
Some examples are
job history
Maintenance Manuals
Component traceability
All necessary to satisfy the regulator but are of no help to us running
a business.

--- PAGE 21 ---
Streamline
Definitions
1. Design or provide with a form that presents very little resistance
to a flow of air or water, increasing speed and ease of movement.
2. Make (an organization or system) more efficient and effective
by employing faster or simpler working methods.

--- PAGE 22 ---
Time is money
Our business revolves around labour charge out and any wasted
time is lost income for the business
10 minutes here and there can add up to a lot of lost hours per
week.
How can a quality system reduce the lost hours
First, we have to identify the lost time.

--- PAGE 23 ---
Customer – Supplier Relationship
In our discussions about quality, we have already identified that it is
a form of customer / supplier relationship
We need to expand on our understanding of that to enable us to
move forward in the right direction.

--- PAGE 25 ---
Quality consists of customer/supplier relationships.
We have two types of customer and suppliers.
External
Internal
External customers are airlines who we repair equipment for, and
our external suppliers are the OEM's who we purchase our parts
from.
However, the detail is in your business, the internal customers and
suppliers.

--- PAGE 26 ---
Supplier / Customer relationship
It is easy to relate quality with our external customer, they expect a
certain outcome and if we provide services that are fit for purpose,
then they pay you for those services. Simple.
Here is a start,
Your quality management manual should have a dispute resolution
procedure to achieve an outcome in the shortest possible time.

--- PAGE 28 ---
Internal Supplier/Customer
What about our internal customers and suppliers
Generally, the most wasted time occurs when there is a breakdown
somewhere in that internal Supplier / Customer relationship
As an example, we will use a piece of equipment for repair and
return to demonstrate this.

--- PAGE 29 ---
Internal Customer - Supplier
The arrangement of customer supplier changes due to the position
in the chain of events, let me explain.
Our External Customer, the aircraft owner/Operator(ABC) airlines
provides you with a piece of equipment for repair and return.
OK, lets follow this component through

--- PAGE 30 ---
First step
ABC is now the supplier, and you are the Customer.
You both have responsibilities
Supplier, ABC is responsible to provide correctly signed purchase
order with sufficient detail about what they require.
Customer, you are responsible to ensure that all of that is provided.
(Incoming Inspection)

--- PAGE 31 ---
Next
You then create a job using the details required and supply it all to
the workshop.
Now, you are the supplier, and the workshop is the customer
Suppliers' responsibility is to provide all the details and equipment
for repair to the workshop.
The workshop is responsible for ensuring everything required is
there and correct. (incoming Inspection)

--- PAGE 32 ---
The workshop carry out the task required and you satisfy the
regulator by including the correct documentation, then it is
supplied to the store for returning to ABC.
Now the workshop is the supplier, and it has the responsibility to
provide the necessary and correct documentation to the store
(Despatch)
The Store is now the customer and is responsible for ensuring all
the equipment (Serial N0.s etc) and paperwork are correct.
(incoming Inspection)

--- PAGE 33 ---
Finally
The store can pack the unit for return to ABC
Now the store is the supplier, responsible for ensuring that all the
necessary bits and pieces are correctly packaged and returned to
ABC
This doesn’t let ABC off the hook, ABC is still the customer and
must ensure that what you supplied was complete and
correct.(Incoming Inspection)

--- PAGE 34 ---
INTERNAL Customer /Supplier flow

--- PAGE 36 ---
Every time the Supplier – Customer changes position there is an
opportunity to lose time.
Example
Imagine if you are paying your store person overtime to dispatch a
backlog of jobs because the workshop, in its roll as supplier, did not
supply the correct data to the store for dispatch of one single job.
This actually happened in my business

--- PAGE 37 ---
SUPPLIER
CUSTOMER

--- PAGE 38 ---
Resolution
Document what to do when there is a breakdown in that
supplier/customer relationship.
A simple paragraph in the manual is sufficient, and you may have to
introduce something else into your system to make this work.
I had to put another shelf in the workshop and re-name an existing
one in the store

--- PAGE 39 ---
OK, that was a store /workshop issue, but the same speedbumps
occur with accounting, e g invoicing. Someone not supplying the
correct data.
Theses things can happen anywhere within your business.
It is vitally important that you identify and address these potential
problems.

--- PAGE 40 ---
Start expanding your quality system to include the processes to
reduce the possibility of wasted time.
Don’t forget to add any document and data control required for your
business data.
When you audit your quality system, include the business
processes and procedures in it and look for continual improvement

--- PAGE 41 ---
Everyone's business is different; you all have reached a different
level of maturity. So. there is no “one size fits all” solution
It's up to all members of the staff to identify these speedbumps and
the best people to ask are, the people doing the job, they know
where the pitfalls are.
So, engage all the staff, Quality is not a management decree, it is a
system owned and operated by all the staff.
Get your staff to document the problems they have and collectively
find a solution.

--- PAGE 42 ---
Finally
Ensure that any resolution to a problem continues to make the
“Supplier” responsible for their own output
Document the resolution, but don’t write a small novel, a few lines
will sometimes be sufficient.
AND
Make the procedures available to the staff

--- PAGE 43 ---
THANK YOU